_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: ""
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

{% if site.google_scholar_stats_use_cdn %}
{% assign gsDataBaseUrl = "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/" | append: site.repository | append: "@" %}
{% else %}
{% assign gsDataBaseUrl = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/" | append: site.repository | append: "/" %}
{% endif %}
{% assign url = gsDataBaseUrl | append: "google-scholar-stats/gs_data_shieldsio.json" %}

<span class='anchor' id='about-me'></span>

I am a Ph.D. student in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at **Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU)**, advised by [Prof. Bo Jiang](https://www.cs.sjtu.edu.cn/~jiang-bo/). Before that, I received BEng in Computer Science from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT) in 2019. I am currently a Research Intern at the **Luoshen Cloud Network Research Team**, Alibaba Cloud, focusing on large-scale network systems.

My research interests lie in **networking4AI**, **distributed systems**, and **AI infrastructure**. Recently, I have been focusing on transport protocols and efficient distributed training of dynamic graphs. 




# 🔥 News
- *2025.12*: &nbsp;🎉🎉 Two papers ("Bifrost" and "CStar Gateway") have been accepted by NSDI'26!
- *2025.03*: &nbsp;🎉 Our paper "Understanding the Long Tail Latency of TCP in Large-Scale Cloud Networks" has been accepted by APNet 2025!
- *2025.01*: &nbsp; Started as Research Intern at Alibaba Cloud - Luoshen Cloud Networking Research Team.
- *2024.08*: &nbsp; Joined Alibaba Cloud as Alibaba Innovative Research Intern. 

# 📝 Publications 

<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">NSDI 2026</div><img src='images/nsdi26.png' alt="sym" width="70%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Bifrost: Alibaba's Next-Generation VPC Network with High-Performance Multipath Reliable Transport](https://jayfzh.github.io)

**Zihao Fan**, Xing Li, Ye Yang, Bo Jiang, Bowen Yang, Yilong Lv, Yuke Hong, Yinian Zhou, Junnan Cai, Jiayue Xu, Yunrui Hu, Zhao Gao, Ke Sun, Yimin Liu, Xiangdong Zhang, Enge Song, Jianyuan Lu, Xiaoqing Sun, Shize Zhang, Haonan Li, Mingxin Li, Changgang Zheng, Song Yang, Jun Liang, Biao Lyu, Rong Wen, Zhigang Zong, Shunmin Zhu

**NSDI'26**, Renton, USA 

**[CCF A]** Acceptance Rate: 100/452=22.1%

</div>
</div>

<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">NSDI 2026</div><img src='images/nsdi26.png' alt="sym" width="70%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[CStar Gateway: Augmenting Public Cloud Infrastructure for Heterogeneous Network Function Virtualization](https://jayfzh.github.io)

Haonan Li, Tian Pan, Jin Ke, Baohai Hu, Changgang Zheng, Enge Song, Zhi Xu, Ye Yang, Bowen Yang, Donglin Lai, Yisong Qiao, Bengbeng Xue, Jianyuan Lu, Xiaoqing Sun, Shize Zhang, **Zihao Fan**, Mingxin Li, Song Yang, Jun Liang, Xionglie Wei, Biao Lyu, Rong Wen, Zhigang Zong, Jiao Zhang, Tao Huang, Shunmin Zhu

**NSDI'26**, Renton, USA 

**[CCF A]** Acceptance Rate: 100/452=22.1%

</div>
</div>


<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">Preprint</div><img src='images/real.png' alt="sym" width="70%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Real: Efficient Distributed Training of Dynamic GNNs with Reuse-Aware Load Balancing Scheduling](https://jayfzh.github.io)

**Zihao Fan** Yunzhuo Liu, Bo Jiang, Tian Guo

Preprint


</div>
</div>



<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">APNet 2025</div><img src='images/apnet2025.png' alt="sym" width="50%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Understanding the Long Tail Latency of TCP in Large-Scale Cloud Networks](https://jhc.sjtu.edu.cn/~bjiang/papers/Fan_APNet2025_TCP.pdf)

**Zihao Fan**, Enge Song, Bo Jiang, Yang Song, Yuke Hong, Bowen Yang, Yilong Lv, Junnan Cai, Chao Wang, Yi Wang, Yehao Feng, Dian Fan, Ye Yang, Shize Zhang, Xiaoqing Sun, Jianyuan Lu, Xing Li, Jun Liang, Biao Lyu, Zhigang Zong, Shunmin Zhu

**APNet 2025**, Shanghai, China

**[CCF C]** Acceptance Rate: 34/133=25.6%
</div>
</div>

<!-- 暂时注释掉示例论文
<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">CVPR 2016</div><img src='images/500x300.png' alt="sym" width="100%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2016/papers/He_Deep_Residual_Learning_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)

**Kaiming He**, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, Jian Sun

[**Project**](https://scholar.google.com/citations?view_op=view_citation&hl=zh-CN&user=DhtAFkwAAAAJ&citation_for_view=DhtAFkwAAAAJ:ALROH1vI_8AC) <strong><span class='show_paper_citations' data='DhtAFkwAAAAJ:ALROH1vI_8AC'></span></strong>
- Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Vivamus ornare aliquet ipsum, ac tempus justo dapibus sit amet. 
</div>
</div>

- [Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Vivamus ornare aliquet ipsum, ac tempus justo dapibus sit amet](https://github.com), A, B, C, **CVPR 2020**
-->

<!-- # 🎖 Honors and Awards
- To be added...  -->

# 📖 Educations
- *2023.09 - Present*, **Ph.D. in Computer Science**, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China
  - Advisor: Prof. Bo Jiang
  - Research Focus: Networking4AI, Distributed Systems, AI Infrastructure
- *2019.09 - 2023.06*, **B.Eng. in Computer Science**, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China
  - Rank: Top 3% in major 

<!-- # 💬 Invited Talks
- To be added... -->

# 💻 Internships
- *2025.01 - Present*, **Research Intern**, Luoshen Cloud Networking Research Team, Alibaba Cloud
  - Focus: Large-scale network systems and AI infra
- *2024.08 - 2025.01*, **Alibaba Innovative Research Intern**, Luoshen Cloud Networking R&D Team, Alibaba Cloud
  - Focus: Transport protocols and virtual private cloud (VPC)

Commit message:

Update research focus: disaggregated LLM serving performance optimization

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: ""
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

{% if site.google_scholar_stats_use_cdn %}
{% assign gsDataBaseUrl = "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/" | append: site.repository | append: "@" %}
{% else %}
{% assign gsDataBaseUrl = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/" | append: site.repository | append: "/" %}
{% endif %}
{% assign url = gsDataBaseUrl | append: "google-scholar-stats/gs_data_shieldsio.json" %}

<span class='anchor' id='about-me'></span>

I am a Ph.D. student in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at **Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU)**, advised by [Prof. Bo Jiang](https://www.cs.sjtu.edu.cn/~jiang-bo/). Before that, I received BEng in Computer Science from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT) in 2019. I am currently a Research Intern at the **Luoshen Cloud Network Research Team**, Alibaba Cloud, focusing on large-scale network systems.

My research interests lie in **networking4AI**, **distributed systems**, and **AI infrastructure**. Recently, I have been focusing on performance optimization for disaggregated LLM serving, particularly on the networking side. 




# 🔥 News
- *2025.12*: &nbsp;🎉🎉 Two papers ("Bifrost" and "CStar Gateway") have been accepted by NSDI'26!
- *2025.03*: &nbsp;🎉 Our paper "Understanding the Long Tail Latency of TCP in Large-Scale Cloud Networks" has been accepted by APNet 2025!
- *2025.01*: &nbsp; Started as Research Intern at Alibaba Cloud - Luoshen Cloud Networking Research Team.
- *2024.08*: &nbsp; Joined Alibaba Cloud as Alibaba Innovative Research Intern. 

# 📝 Publications 

<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">NSDI 2026</div><img src='images/nsdi26.png' alt="sym" width="70%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Bifrost: Alibaba's Next-Generation VPC Network with High-Performance Multipath Reliable Transport](https://jayfzh.github.io)

**Zihao Fan**, Xing Li, Ye Yang, Bo Jiang, Bowen Yang, Yilong Lv, Yuke Hong, Yinian Zhou, Junnan Cai, Jiayue Xu, Yunrui Hu, Zhao Gao, Ke Sun, Yimin Liu, Xiangdong Zhang, Enge Song, Jianyuan Lu, Xiaoqing Sun, Shize Zhang, Haonan Li, Mingxin Li, Changgang Zheng, Song Yang, Jun Liang, Biao Lyu, Rong Wen, Zhigang Zong, Shunmin Zhu

**NSDI'26**, Renton, USA 

**[CCF A]** Acceptance Rate: 100/452=22.1%

</div>
</div>

<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">NSDI 2026</div><img src='images/nsdi26.png' alt="sym" width="70%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[CStar Gateway: Augmenting Public Cloud Infrastructure for Heterogeneous Network Function Virtualization](https://jayfzh.github.io)

Haonan Li, Tian Pan, Jin Ke, Baohai Hu, Changgang Zheng, Enge Song, Zhi Xu, Ye Yang, Bowen Yang, Donglin Lai, Yisong Qiao, Bengbeng Xue, Jianyuan Lu, Xiaoqing Sun, Shize Zhang, **Zihao Fan**, Mingxin Li, Song Yang, Jun Liang, Xionglie Wei, Biao Lyu, Rong Wen, Zhigang Zong, Jiao Zhang, Tao Huang, Shunmin Zhu

**NSDI'26**, Renton, USA 

**[CCF A]** Acceptance Rate: 100/452=22.1%

</div>
</div>


<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">Preprint</div><img src='images/real.png' alt="sym" width="70%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Real: Efficient Distributed Training of Dynamic GNNs with Reuse-Aware Load Balancing Scheduling](https://jayfzh.github.io)

**Zihao Fan** Yunzhuo Liu, Bo Jiang, Tian Guo

Preprint


</div>
</div>



<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">APNet 2025</div><img src='images/apnet2025.png' alt="sym" width="50%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Understanding the Long Tail Latency of TCP in Large-Scale Cloud Networks](https://jhc.sjtu.edu.cn/~bjiang/papers/Fan_APNet2025_TCP.pdf)

**Zihao Fan**, Enge Song, Bo Jiang, Yang Song, Yuke Hong, Bowen Yang, Yilong Lv, Junnan Cai, Chao Wang, Yi Wang, Yehao Feng, Dian Fan, Ye Yang, Shize Zhang, Xiaoqing Sun, Jianyuan Lu, Xing Li, Jun Liang, Biao Lyu, Zhigang Zong, Shunmin Zhu

**APNet 2025**, Shanghai, China

**[CCF C]** Acceptance Rate: 34/133=25.6%
</div>
</div>

<!-- 暂时注释掉示例论文
<div class='paper-box'><div class='paper-box-image'><div><div class="badge">CVPR 2016</div><img src='images/500x300.png' alt="sym" width="100%"></div></div>
<div class='paper-box-text' markdown="1">

[Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2016/papers/He_Deep_Residual_Learning_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)

**Kaiming He**, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, Jian Sun

[**Project**](https://scholar.google.com/citations?view_op=view_citation&hl=zh-CN&user=DhtAFkwAAAAJ&citation_for_view=DhtAFkwAAAAJ:ALROH1vI_8AC) <strong><span class='show_paper_citations' data='DhtAFkwAAAAJ:ALROH1vI_8AC'></span></strong>
- Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Vivamus ornare aliquet ipsum, ac tempus justo dapibus sit amet. 
</div>
</div>

- [Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Vivamus ornare aliquet ipsum, ac tempus justo dapibus sit amet](https://github.com), A, B, C, **CVPR 2020**
-->

<!-- # 🎖 Honors and Awards
- To be added...  -->

# 📖 Educations
- *2023.09 - Present*, **Ph.D. in Computer Science**, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China
  - Advisor: Prof. Bo Jiang
  - Research Focus: Networking4AI, Distributed Systems, AI Infrastructure
- *2019.09 - 2023.06*, **B.Eng. in Computer Science**, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China
  - Rank: Top 3% in major 

<!-- # 💬 Invited Talks
- To be added... -->

# 💻 Internships
- *2025.01 - Present*, **Research Intern**, Luoshen Cloud Networking Research Team, Alibaba Cloud
  - Focus: Large-scale network systems and AI infra
- *2024.08 - 2025.01*, **Alibaba Innovative Research Intern**, Luoshen Cloud Networking R&D Team, Alibaba Cloud
  - Focus: Transport protocols and virtual private cloud (VPC)
